climate change caused by human activity

In this project, we want to establish that climate change is caused by human activity. The most obvious evidence is the usage of carbon-based materials, which causes emission of carbon dioxide(CO2).  

In an article written by [Environmental Defence Fund](https://www.edf.org/climate/9-ways-we-know-humans-triggered-climate-change?utm_source=google&utm_campaign=edf_none_upd_dmt&utm_medium=cpc&utm_id=1545230990&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIzeCDw8DD4QIVUh6tBh1NsQ8tEAAYASAAEgIIivD_BwE) 
The research falls into nine independently studied, but physically related, lines of evidence:

1. Simple chemistry – when we burn carbon-based materials, carbon dioxide (CO2) is emitted (research beginning in 1900s)

2. Basic accounting of what we burn, and therefore how much CO2 we emit (data collection beginning in 1970s)

3. Measuring CO2 in the atmosphere and trapped in ice to find that it's increasing, with levels higher than anything we've seen in hundreds of thousands of years (measurements beginning in 1950s)

4. Chemical analysis of the atmospheric CO2 that reveals the increase is coming from burning fossil fuels (research beginning in 1950s)

5. Basic physics that shows us that CO2 absorbs heat (research beginning in 1820s)

6. Monitoring climate conditions to find that recent warming of the Earth is correlated to and follows rising CO2 emissions (research beginning in 1930s)

7. Ruling out natural factors that can influence climate like the sun and ocean cycles (research beginning in 1830s)

8. Employing computer models to run experiments of natural versus human-influenced simulations of Earth (research beginning in 1960s)

9. Consensus among scientists who consider all previous lines of evidence and make their own conclusions (polling beginning in 1990s)



https://climate.nasa.gov/causes/
Most climate scientists agree the main cause of the current global warming trend is human expansion of the "greenhouse effect" — warming that results when the atmosphere traps heat radiating from Earth toward space.

Certain gases in the atmosphere block heat from escaping. Long-lived gases that remain semi-permanently in the atmosphere and do not respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are described as "forcing" climate change. Gases, such as water vapor, which respond physically or chemically to changes in temperature are seen as "feedbacks."

https://www.climate.gov/news-features/understanding-climate/climate-change-atmospheric-carbon-dioxide
Lindsey(2018)
In this project, we want to look specifically at carbon dioxide. According to an article on climate.org, Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas: a gas that absorbs heat. Warmed by sunlight, Earth’s land and ocean surfaces continuously radiate thermal infrared energy (heat). Unlike oxygen or nitrogen (which make up most of our atmosphere), greenhouse gases absorb that heat and release it gradually over time, like bricks in a fireplace after the fire goes out. Without this natural greenhouse effect, Earth’s average annual temperature would be below freezing instead of close to 60°F. But increases in greenhouse gases have tipped the Earth's energy budget out of balance, trapping additional heat and raising Earth's average temperature. 

Carbon dioxide is the most important of Earth’s long-lived greenhouse gases. It absorbs less heat per molecule than the greenhouse gases methane or nitrous oxide, but it’s more abundant and it stays in the atmosphere much longer. And while carbon dioxide is less abundant and less powerful than water vapor on a molecule per molecule basis, it absorbs wavelengths of thermal energy that water vapor does not, which means it adds to the greenhouse effect in a unique way. Increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide are responsible for about two-thirds of the total energy imbalance that is causing Earth's temperature to rise.

We can see that carbon dioxide level is at all-time high in our history. In addition, it is also highly correlated with rising temperature.

The major effect of rising carbon dioxide level is rising temperature. 

